### SWORD Background 

The upcoming [Surface Water and Ocean Topography (SWOT) satellite mission](https://swot.jpl.nasa.gov/), planned to launch in 2022, will vastly expand observations of river water surface elevation (WSE), width, and slope [(Biancamaria et al., 2016)](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-32449-4_6). In order to facilitate a wide range of new analyses with flexibility, the SWOT mission will provide a range of relevant data products. One product the SWOT mission will provide are river vector products stored in shapefile format for each SWOT overpass. The SWOT vector data products will be most broadly useful if they allow multitemporal analysis of river nodes and reaches covering the same river areas. Doing so requires defining SWOT reaches and nodes a priori, so that SWOT data can be assigned to them. The **SWO**t **R**iver **D**atabase (**SWORD**) combines multiple global river- and satellite-related datasets to define the nodes and reaches that will constitute SWOT river vector data products. SWORD provides high-resolution river nodes (200 m) and reaches (~10 km) in shapefile and netCDF formats with attached hydrologic variables (WSE, width, slope, etc.) as well as a consistent topological system for global rivers 30 m wide and greater. A public version of SWORD is [freely available](https://zenodo.org/record/3898569). Information regarding the development of SWORD are detailed by [Altenau et al. (2021)](https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1029/2021WR030054). 

### Intended Useage 

The SWORD database is an evolving product that is intended to undergo continued improvements and updates before and after the launch of SWOT. Currently, there are limited manual adjustments made to SWORD which result in the database containing some artifacts primarily due to discrepancies in the input database used to create SWORD. Given that SWORD is a global product resulting from the combination of many different products, there are some areas that likely need improvement to be hydrologically correct. We have done our best to manually and automatically find major errors in SWORD, however, input from the SWOT Science Team and other hydrologists is helpful to identify persistent artifacts. **This dashboard is intended to help explore the most up-to-date SWORD version, and help users identify and report areas for improving SWORD.** The "Report Reach" button in this app allows the ability to report common SWORD errors on a reach-by-reach basis. More detail on how to report a list of reach errors or more complex issues can be found in the [SWORD Update Request Documentation](https://drive.google.com/file/d/15OSrP0HY5HnwpEWh67ObYEWqwsAPSIEv/view?usp=sharing).

### Notes for Users

- The first map displayed for each region is the basin map key. Users can use this key to identify a river basin they wish to explore, then choose the basin from the drop down at the top-right corner of the map. 
- Maps that display rivers include 5 attribute layers: reach boundaries, water surface elevation (WSE), flow accumulation, distance from outlet, and slope. Layers can be toggled on and off using the layers icon in the bottom-right corner of the map. 
- Users can hover or click on a reach to view attribute information.
- Users can enter a Reach ID into the input box below the map to plot node-level properties of node order, width, elevation, flow accumulation, sinuosity, and number of channels along a specified reach. 
- Native SWORD reach geometries are built at 30 m resolution, however, for map efficiency gemetries have been simplified to ~500 m resolution. To examine full reach geometries, please download the full SWORD Database.